Sorting Things Out
==================

Hi!  I really hope that everyone reading this is still doing okay,
and if that isn't the case, I wish you a good day!

``pip`` 20.2 Released!
----------------------

Last Wednesday, ``pip`` 20.2 was released, delivering the ``2020-resolver``
as well as many other improvements!  I was lucky to be able
to get the ``fast-deps`` feature to be included as part of the release.
A brief description of this *experimental* feature as well as testing
instruction can be found on `Python Discuss`_.

The public exposure of the feature also remind me of some further
:pip:`optimization <8681>` to make on :pip:`the lazy wheel <8670>`.
Hopefully without download parallelization it would not be too slow
to put off testing by concerned users of ``pip``.

Preparation for Download Parallelization
----------------------------------------

As of this moment, we already have:

* :pip:`Multithreading pool fallback working <8162#issuecomment-667504162>`
* An opt-in to use lazy wheel to optain dependency information,
  and thus getting a list of wheels at the end of resolution
  ready to be downloaded together

What's left is *only* to interject a parallel download somewhere after
the dependency resolution step.  Still, this struggles me way more than
I've ever imagined.  I got so stuck that I had to give myself a day off
in the middle of the week (and study some Rust), then I came up with
:pip:`something what was agreed upon as difficult to maintain <8638>`.

Indeed, a large part of this is my fault, for not communicating the design
thoroughly with ``pip``'s maintainers and not carefully noting stuff down
during (verbal) discussions with my mentor.  Thankfully :pip:`Chris Hunt
came to the rescue <8685>` and did a refactoring that will make my future work
much easier and cleaner.

.. _Python Discuss:
   https://discuss.python.org/t/announcement-pip-20-2-release/4863/2
