Second Check-In
===============

Hi everyone and may the odds ever in your favor, especially during this
tough time!

What did I do last week?
------------------------

Not as much I wished, apparently (-:

* Finalizing :pip:`the refactoring patch <8411>`
  of ``operations.prepare.prepare_linked_requirement``
* :pip:`Nitpicking some logging calls <8423>`.  This (as well as the next one)
  was to fill up the time my brain not being as productive as I want it to XD
* :pip:`Beginning to migrate <8423>` from ``%``- to ``{}``-style logging.
  The amount of tests failing due to this was way beyond my imagination,
  but I got functional tests for ``pip install`` and unit tests passing now!
* :pip:`Mocking up a working partial wheel download during
  dependency resolution <8442>` for `the new resolver`_.

Did I get stuck anywhere?
-------------------------

Yes, of course!  :pip:`Parallel maps <8320>` are still stalling
as well as other small PRs listed above.  The failure related to
``logging`` are still making me pulling my hair out and the proof of
concept for partial wheel downloading is too ugly even for a PoC.
I imagine that I will have a lot of clean up to do this week (yay!).

What is coming up next?
-----------------------

I'm trying get the multi-{threading,processing} facilities merged ASAP
to start rolling it out in practice.  The first thing popping out of my
head is to get back :pip:`the multi-threaded <7962>` ``pip list -o``.

The other experimental improvement (this phrase does not sound right!)
I would like to get done is the partial wheel download.  It would be
really nice if I can get both included as ``unstable-feature``'s
in :pip:`the upcoming beta release of pip 20.2 <7628#issuecomment-636319539>`.

.. _the new resolver:
   http://www.ei8fdb.org/thoughts/2020/05/test-pips-alpha-resolver-and-help-us-document-dependency-conflicts/
